Asian Games: India keep knockout stage hopes alive with 1-0 win

[Image of football pitch - intense]
NEW DELHI: 
The Indian football team achieved a remarkable victory over Bangladesh in a crucial match at the Asian Games in Hangzhou on Thursday, thanks to a late goal by the 39-year-old veteran Sunil Chhetri.

[Image of Sunil Chhetri - triumphant]
Chhetri's decisive moment came in the 85th minute when he successfully converted a penalty kick, securing a solitary goal. This goal breathed new life into India's hopes of advancing to the tournament's knockout stage. It was a much-needed victory after a challenging 1-5 defeat against the host nation China just two days prior.

[Image of penalty kick - suspense]
Despite the Bangladesh goalkeeper correctly guessing the direction, he couldn't stop Chhetri's magnificent penalty kick, watching helplessly as the ball sailed past him into the net.

[Image of Bangladeshi goalkeeper - disappointed]
The penalty kick was awarded to India after a foul committed by Bangladesh captain Rahmat. Rahmat impeded Bryce Miranda after a long ball had been delivered to him at the edge of the penalty box.

[Image of penalty foul - controversial]
When asked about the lack of recovery time, Chhetri remarked, "The first thing is to go and recuperate; it was not easy. I'm pretty sure it was the same thing for the opponents also. Playing three games in five days is not easy, a lot of ice baths, eat good food and get ready."

[Image of players recovering - determined]
India's next challenge will be Myanmar, who secured a 1-0 victory over Bangladesh on the opening day of the tournament.

[Image of Myanmar flag - upcoming opponent]
During the game, India had an excellent opportunity to score from a free kick after Gurkirat Singh was fouled near the Bangladesh box. Samuel Kynshi took the free-kick with guidance from Chhetri, but his shot towards the top-left corner was brilliantly saved by the Bangladesh goalkeeper, who dived to palm the ball away.

[Image of free kick - suspenseful moment]
After a goalless first half, India had another chance to score, but Rahul KP couldn't capitalize on the cross inside the box as he headed it in the wrong direction.

[Image of Rahul KP - missed opportunity]
India made three changes, with Gurmeet Singh, who received a yellow card in the last game, being replaced by Dheeraj Singh. The other two changes saw Rohit Danu taking Rahim Ali's place and Chingelsena Singh replacing Sumit Rathi.

[Image of Indian football team - lineup change]
