Asiad: Where culture and history blend with world-beating technology
HANGZHOU: 'Smart'. That's what one comes across as a unanimous first impression at the 19th Asian Games, but it's not a surprise when you are at what's regarded as the Artificial Intelligence (AI) headquarters - Hangzhou. And, therefore, not a surprise to witness China promoting the 19th edition of the Asiad as the 'Smart' Games.Hangzhou, in fact, brings together a unique blend of historical landscapes like the West Lake, which has inspired poets as long back as the 9th century and one that has seen it become a world leader in technology.Hangzhou's role in the ancient Silk Road is a major part of its rich cultural heritage, which led to development of civilization that has gone to add that 'silken' touch to its seamless technology-driven living in the modern era, and it is also driving the Games.Hangzhou ready for 'Smart' Asian GamesFrom the bottom to the top level, the Games paint a picture that at times almost resembles a 'Technology Fair' - at least until the on-field competition completely takes over after the opening ceremony on September 23. A walk through the Main Media Centre (MMC) can leave even the digital freaks overwhelmed. It's literally a 'Cloud' of technology and activity that mesmerizes you.A robot can answer all your banking queries at the Main Media Centre, another one can be seen exhibiting its ability to transfer small goods from one point to another. If you are in the way, it will gently say, 'please be careful.'You can walk into the AI-generated image kiosk to punch keywords of your choice and ask the system to throw up related images that you can then cast on the giant digital curve, or take a walkthrough to learn how AI can revolutionize the broadcast world. Enter the MMC and a giant screen beaming a 'Cloud' of activity across the Games welcomes the accredited media.At the venues, if you are unable to locate your seat, the 'Smart Hangzhou 2022' application will do it for you.The Tonglu Equestrian Centre, intriguingly, has been provided a 'digital twin'. It replicates the arena and uses technology to digitally keep an eye on all the aspects, including energy conservation.Language barriers seem a thing of the past when volunteers not fluent in English push a button on their cell phone and gently extend the device closer to a foreign guest to record his query. The AI-enabled application translates that into Mandarin for the volunteers, who then are ready to guide."Regarding intelligent spectator experiences, we have created the first-ever digital spectator service platform called 'Smart Hangzhou 2022,' and introduced Asian Games AR services," said Chen Weiqiang, executive secretary-general of the Organizing Committee of the Games, at a press conference.But that's not where it ends. The Games have also incorporated:1. 5G-Advanced: Can transfer data up to 10 times the speed of standard 5G2. Passive IoT (Internet of things): Can monitor environmental temperatures and humidity, tracking of logistics vehicles, warehouse management, asset inventory management and can prevent theft by monitoring valuable assets deployed at the Games venues3. Driverless buses: Uses autonomous driving technology (in service at the co-host city of Deqing, between the Sports Center Gymnasium and the Geographic Information Town Basketball Court) Not far in the future, the 'China Artificial Intelligence Town' in Hangzhou will stand to testify the city's leading presence on the world technology map. But for the moment, it's the turn of Asian Games to provide a digital sports experience like never before.