'Visa services in Canada halted after security threat to staff'
NEW DELHI: India on Thursday suspended visa services in Canada till further notice. The action has been taken due to security threats being faced by Indian high commission and consulates in Canada, MEA spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said.The move comes amid the ongoing row between the nations over the killing of Khalistani extremist Hardeep Singh Nijjar.Read AlsoNijjar killing: India says there is degree of prejudice in Justin Trudeau's politically motivated allegationsIndia has accused Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau of making politically motivated allegations regarding the killing of a Khalistani terrorist. The ministry of external affairs stated that Canada did not share any specific information on the case. India has hinted at reducing the number ofLIVE: MEA briefing on Canada on Canada Khalistan Issue | India vs Canada | Justin Trudeau"You are aware of the security threats being faced by our high commission and consulates in Canada. This has disrupted their normal functioning. Accordingly, our high commission and consulates are temporarily unable to process visa applications. We will be reviewing the situation on a regular basis," Bagchi said.The ties between the countries turned sour after Canada PM Justin Trudeau alleged there's involvement of Indian agents in the killing of Nijjar in June. India has outrightly rejected the allegations, terming it as 'absurd' and 'motivated'.INDIA-CANADA CONFLICT: How is the world reacting after Modi Govt's Befitting Reply To TrudeauHere are the latest developments:Canada pulls diplomatsCanada said it would reduce the number of diplomats in India due to security concernsAccording to Global Affairs Canada, some diplomats have received threats on social media platforms after Canadian PM Justin Trudeau’s claims on Monday that Indian agents are involved in the killing of Khalistani extremist Nijjar on Canadian soil. India termed the allegations 'absurd' and denied involvement in the June 19 shooting of Hardeep Singh Nijjar.“Unfortunate that Canada chose public route”: Shashi Tharoor criticises Trudeau’s allegation on IndiaVisa suspension due to 'operational reasons'On its website, BLS International shared a note that Indian visa services have been "suspended till further notice. Please keep checking BLS website for further updates"."Important notice from Indian Mission: Due to operational reasons, with effect from 21 September 2023, Indian visa services have been suspended till further notice. Please keep checking BLS website for further updates," the BLS website said.Designated terrorist "Gurpatwant Pannun" threatens Indians in Canada | India-Canada LatestAnother Khalistan-linked gangster Sukhdool killedGangster-turned-terrorist Sukhdool Singh alias Sukha Duneke was shot dead by unidentified gunmen in Canada's Winnipeg area on Wednesday, intelligence sources said. Duneke, who belonged to Moga in Punjab, was a close associate of designated terrorist Arsh Dalla of the Khalistan Tiger Force. The duo had been trying to resurrect the outfit after the killing of terrorist Hardeep Singh Nijjar by rivals in June this year. Gangster Lawrence Bishnoi claimed responsibility for the killing.Operation to nab criminals linked with gangster Goldy BrarThe Punjab Police on Thursday launched raids at several places on Thursday to nab criminals linked with Canada-based gangster Goldy Brar. Brar was the main accused in the killing of singer Sidhu Moosewala. Satinderjeet Singh alias Goldy Brar, who went to Canada on a student visa in 2017, is an active member of the Lawrence Bishnoi gang.Canada MP criticises Trudeau govtCanadian MP Chandra Arya alleged that the extremist elements are 'attacking' and 'threatening' Hindu-Canadians to go back to India.An Indo-Canadian leader from the Liberal Party of Canada, the same party as Trudeau, urged all the Hindu-Canadians in the country to stay calm, and vigilant and report any untoward incident to law enforcement agencies.He expressed dismay at 'glorification of terrorism' and hate crime being allowed in the name of 'freedom of expression'. - With agency inputsWatch India suspends visa services in Canada with immediate effect