Gill wants to be the next Kohli: Ex-India batter's big statement
NEW DELHI: Former Indian cricketer Suresh Raina believes that after the conclusion of this year's Men's ODI World Cup, Shubman Gill, the talented young right-handed batsman, will become a prominent topic of discussion within the cricketing community.Gill, who was named Player of the Tournament during India's victorious 2018 Men's U-19 World Cup campaign, has earned his place in India's squad for the ODIs against Australia and is also a key member of the team for the upcoming Men's ODI World Cup on home soil.Read AlsoIndia vs Australia: Shreyas Iyer's fitness, Suryakumar Yadav's ODI ambitions take centre stageTeam India prepares for a three-game series against Australia, marking the final dress rehearsal before the ICC ODI World Cup. Head coach Rahul Dravid assesses India's bench strength, while Rohit Sharma, Virat Kohli, Kuldeep Yadav, and Hardik Pandya rest. Mumbai-based batsmen Shreyas Iyer and'My wrist is all healed...': Pat Cummins aims to play full series against IndiaAustralian captain Pat Cummins is set to participate in all three upcoming One-Day Internationals against India after recovering from a left wrist injury. He confirmed his physical readiness during a pre-match press conference, but revealed that his new ball partner, Mitchell Starc, will beThis selection is a result of Gill's consistently impressive performances in the format over the past 1.5 years. He recently emerged as the top run-scorer in the Asia Cup, amassing 302 runs in five matches with an impressive average of 75.50 and a strike rate of 93.50."He'll be one of the most important players at the World Cup. I know that he wants to be a superstar and wants to be the next Virat Kohli and is in that aura already and after this World Cup, we will be talking about him more often," said Raina on JioCinema.The first ODI against Australia on Friday at the PCA Stadium in Mohali holds special significance for Gill, as it marks his debut in playing an international match at his home ground.Drawing parallels to the past, Raina, who was a crucial part of India's triumphant 2011 World Cup-winning team, envisions Gill replicating the kind of batting prowess displayed by captain Rohit Sharma in the 2019 World Cup, where he emerged as the tournament's leading run-scorer."The form he's playing in with his hand speed - it's extremely strong. Spinners don't know where to bowl to him and if fast bowlers don't swing the ball, he can play those really well with a straight or a flick.""His mindset will not stop here. What Rohit Sharma did in the 2019 World Cup; Gill could do the same for India this year. He'll get 50 overs to bat, so it's a takeoff point for his batting. I think he's a born leader and he shows that in his game."