Air fares to Ahmedabad remain unmatched for Indo-Pak WC match
AHMEDABAD: It is going to be an expensive affair for cricket fans planning to travel to Ahmedabad for the nail-biting India-Pakistan face-off at ICC Cricket World Cup 2023. While hotels are either sold out or are retailing at premium tariffs, there are no signs of air fares dropping either.With 25 days left for the match, air fares for inbound flights to Ahmedabad from across the country have jumped 415%. If you book your tickets 25-30 days in advance, flights from destinations like Chandigarh, Jaipur, Lucknow, Mumbai, Delhi, Kolkata, Chennai, Bengaluru, Hyderabad, Patna, Bhopal, Bhubaneswar, and Pune, among others will cost you anywhere between Rs 5,500 and Rs 12,000 per person for a round trip. However, if you book your tickets to Ahmedabad today for the World Cup matches, you will end up paying anywhere between 104% and 415% more.“Visiting Ahmedabad during the match days will be a costly affair. We know of a few hotels here that have charged as high as Rs 80,000 per room per night in the wake of high demand. With limited frequency, flight fares are bound to go up,” said a city travel operator. Notably, air fares are not so high as yet around other matches i.e., the opening match or even the qualifier and the final. Travel operators have recommended there must be additional flight deployment.“People from across the globe, including fans, supporters, sponsors and mediapersons, plan to come for what promises to be an exciting game. Airlines must deploy additional flights to Ahmedabad from October 13-16 to heed to high demand so that passengers arriving or leaving from here get additional benefit,” said Anuj Pathak, president, Travel Agents and Tour Operators’ Association of Gujarat (TAG).On the other hand, hotels are all prepared to host cricket fans. “Sponsors, cricket fans and VVIPs have booked their stay at the hotel and enthusiasm is reaching a fever pitch. Four matches of the ICC Cricket World Cup being held in the city will bring a lot of revenue for the hospitality sector in Ahmedabad and it will be a good start to the third quarter,” said Keenan McKenzie, general manager, ITC Narmada.We also published the following articles recentlyAhmedabad hotel brings regional, local culinary palette to patronsThe ITC Narmada hotel in Ahmedabad recently hosted a food festival to showcase the regional cuisine from various parts of Gujarat. The menu was curated by the hotel's sous chefs, who traveled across the state to explore the local food and culinary traditions. The festival aims to introduce lesser-known gourmet offerings from the hinterlands of Gujarat and promote the government's initiative of Year of Millet. The event also emphasizes the use of locally sourced ingredients in the preparations.ICC to announce New York as venue for 2024 Men's T20 World Cup matches: ReportThe International Cricket Council (ICC) is set to announce New York as one of the venues for the 2024 Men's T20 World Cup, which will be hosted by the USA and the West Indies. Initially, a venue in the Bronx faced opposition, but now discussions are being held about hosting matches at Eisenhower Park in Nassau County. This could address the ICC's concerns about venues in the USA. The tournament will feature teams from several nations, including the host nations, Australia, England, India, and Pakistan. Qualifiers are yet to be held for other regions.Superstar Rajinikanth gets golden ticket for Cricket World Cup 2023Actor Rajinikanth has been presented with a golden ticket by the Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) for the upcoming ICC Cricket World Cup 2023. The ticket grants access to every match in the tournament. Rajinikanth, known for his love of cricket, will be attending as a distinguished guest. He received the ticket from BCCI secretary Jay Shah. The Indian cricket team's first game in the tournament will be against Australia in Chennai, and it is expected that Rajinikanth will be present at the stadium.