Cough sound can determine severity of COVID
COVID has a long-lasting impact on the human health. Scientists and health experts have been analyzing the impact of COVID on human beings and this has led to raising awareness around long COVID. Currently, BA.2.86 and EG.5 variants of COVID are in circulation. These variants are the sub-variants of the Omicron variant of COVID and are said to have a higher transmission rate than their ancestors. Read AlsoThis painful skin condition increases risk of heart disease, finds new studyPsoriasis is a chronic autoimmune skin condition that causes the rapid buildup of skin cells. Normally, skin cells grow and shed over a period of several weeks. However, in individuals with psoriasis, this process is greatly accelerated, with new skin cells rising to the surface in just a matter ofSinger Sufjan Stevens diagnosed with Guillain Barre syndrome; know the disease and its symptomsIndie-rock artist Sufjan Stevens revealed that he has been diagnosed with Guillain-Barré syndrome, a rare autoimmune disorder that affects his ability to walk. Guillain-Barré syndrome is a serious condition that can cause numbness, weakness, and pain in the feet, hands, and limbs. While it can beWhile most people infected with COVID-19 have milder symptoms and recover within a few weeks, the global pandemic produced by the SARS-CoV-2 virus continues to pose a substantial health risk. Some of the individuals affected may develop more severe sickness and pneumonia, often resulting in a more unfavourable prognosis.Although protocols have been developed to assess patients' risk, diagnostic and prognostic tools primarily rely on expensive and less accessible imaging methods, such as radiography, ultrasound, or computed tomography (CT).Therefore, there is a need to develop a simpler and more readily available prognostic tool that enables healthcare providers to identify patients who have developed or are at risk of developing severe disease. This would streamline patient triage and facilitate early intervention, even in home or primary care settings.Now, a research team led by IBEC and Hospital del Mar, with collaboration from the Universitat Politècnica de Catalunya (UPC), CIBER-BBN and CIBERES, has carried out a study based on the analysis and interpretation of cough sounds in the initial phases of COVID-19. This method is presented as a potential predictive, simple, and accessible tool to assess the risk of suffering severe pneumonia.The research involved smartphone recordings of voluntary coughing sounds from 70 patients with SARS-CoV-2 infection, all recorded within the first 24 hours after their admission to the hospital. IBEC conducted an acoustic analysis of these recordings, which revealed significant differences in cough sounds depending on the severity of the respiratory condition, as previously confirmed by imaging tests and the need for supplemental oxygen.The results indicate that this analysis could be used to categorize COVID-19 patients as mild, moderate, or severe and to monitor patients with persistent COVID-19. The study was conducted using data collected between April 2020 and May 2021 at Hospital del Mar, and the findings have been published in the European Respiratory Journal Open Research.