3 Idiots actor Akhil Mishra passes away in an accident
Actor Akhil Mishra, who is popularly known for the role of librarian Dubey in Aamir Khan film 3 Idiots, has passed away. ETimes TV has exclusively learnt about his shocking demise.According to sources, his wife and actress Suzanne Bernert was in Hyderabad for a shoot when the incident happened. She rushed back immediately hearing the news. Reportedly, the actor, 58, was working in his kitchen and slipped.His body has been sent for post-mortem and wife Suzanne has been in shock since then. She has been doing all the arrangements and preparing for the cremation. Suzanna shared, ‘My heart is broken, my second half is gone’.His last rites are going to be held at 3.30 pm today (September 21) at Indralok near Golden Nest.Talking about the actor, Akhil has also been a part of several TV shows like Bhanwar, Uttaran (Umed Singh Bundela), Udaan, CID, Shrimaan Shrimati, Bharat Ek Koj, Rajani, and many others.His film work includes Don, Well Don Abba, Hazaaron Khwaishein Aisi and more. His earned major recognition through his brief yet memorable portrayal as Librarian Dubey in "3 Idiots," which starred Aamir Khan, Sharman Joshi, Kareena Kapoor Khan, R Madhavan, Boman Irani and others. He also made a mark by taking on the character of Umed Singh Bundela in the popular show "Uttaran."Akhil married German actress Suzanne Bernert on February 3, 2009. They later got married in a traditional ceremony held on September 30, 2011. Their professional collaborations included working together in the movie "Kram" and the TV series "Mera Dil Dewaana" (Doordarshan), as well as sharing the stage. In 2019, the couple collaborated on a Short Film titled "Majnu ki Juliet," which Mishra not only acted in but also wrote and directed.His wife Suzanne has been a part of several TV shows namely Kasautii Zindagii Kay, Savdhaan India, Ek Hazaaron Mein Meri Behna Hai, Chakravartin Ashoka Samrat, Yeh Rishta Kya Kehlata Hai and Porus.Our condolences to the family.Watch Akhil Mishra who played Librarian Dubey in Aamir Khan starrer ‘3 Idiots’ passes away in a SHOCKING incident