Akhil was my soulmate, my better half... I don't know what I'll do without him: Wife Suzanne Bernert
Akhil Mishra passed away yesterday at the age of 67. He is known for films like 3 Idiots, Don and has also been part of TV shows like Do Dil Bandhe Ek Dori Se, Uttaran and Sea Hawks. His untimely death has come as a shock to his family and friends.His wife Suzanne Bernert, who is also an actress, confirmed that Akhil fell from a stool in the house when there was nobody at home.Read AlsoMandira Bedi is ‘super excited’ to join ‘Identity’ starring Tovino ThomasTovino Thomas starrer 'Identity' has begun shooting with Mandira Bedi making her debut in Malayalam cinema. Bedi expressed her excitement about the film in a video shared on social media. The film, directed by Akhil Paul and Anas Khan, is a high-octane action entertainer and also stars TrishaSuzanne, who is in a state of shock, said, "He was hospitalised last month for high blood pressure. He was feeling better over the last few days and was taking proper medication too. He was also doing physiotherapy and things seemed fine. He had stopped helping with household chores when he was unwell but as he felt better, he insisted on helping me. When I was leaving home yesterday, he said he would do the laundry. One of our family friends came home to be with him while I was not there, but even he had to go to the bank for a short while."She added, "So after our family friend left, Akhil was alone at home. Maybe he tried to hang the clothes near our kitchen area by climbing on a stool and he may have slipped and fallen down. But we don't actually know what happened. When our family friend came home, he found him on the floor. He was rushed to the hospital by him and our neighbour who is also a doctor. Akhil was still communicating and was telling them, 'I love Suzanne and I don't want to go to the hospital', but in the hospital, we got to know that he had an internal haemorrhage and there was a lot of blood loss and the doctors couldn't save him. He passed away in the hospital. A postmortem was done after which the last rites were performed."The Yeh Rishta Kya Kehlata Hain actress and Akhil tied the knot in 2009. "Akhil was my soulmate, my better half. He was everything to me from being my guru to being like a protective father figure. I don't know what I will do without him, I feel very lost," she said.