Save the Date: TOI to hold Right to Excellence - Tech Summit
In a world constantly evolving due to technological advancements, the need for platforms that facilitate innovation, collaboration, and discussion among tech enthusiasts, experts, and industry leaders is more critical than ever. With this in mind, the announcement of the "Right To Excellence - Tech Summit 2023" marks an exciting milestone for the tech community. Scheduled for September 25th at the Eros Hotel in New Delhi, this summit promises to be a pivotal event that will shape the future of technology.Right to Excellence’ is a movement spearheaded by The Times of India that celebrates genius, innovation and empowerment across different fields. With a rich history of informing, inspiring, and uniting people, TOI is taking the lead in championing the ‘Right to Excellence’ ethos.The Right To Excellence - Tech Summit 2023 aims to create an environment where technology takes center stage, inspiring both seasoned professionals and aspiring newcomers. It seeks to promote the idea that access to excellence in technology is a fundamental right for all. The summit is driven by the belief that the democratization of technology is essential for the progress of societies and economies across the globe.The Right To Excellence - Tech Summit 2023 will have a range of sessions with the opening address from Rajeev Chandrasekhar, minister of electronics and information technology. Panel discussion 1: Driving the Future: Tech in AutoEminent panelists Tarun Garg, COO, Hyundai Motor India; Rohan Verma, CEO, MapMyIndia; and Ranjivjit Singh, CMO, HeroMoroCorp will talk about how technology has transformed the auto industry in the last decade. Today an average car is 90 per cent hardware and 10 per cent software. How connected cars and software will be the main revenue growth driver in the automotive sector.Panel 2: Next-Gen Connectivity: Innovation Through 5GThe panel discussion will have eminent panelists Lt Gen Dr SP Kochhar, DG, COAI; Anku Jain, MD, Mediatek India; and Manoranjan Mohapatra, CEO, Comviva will talk about the disruptive impact of 5G. How 5G will reshape companies across industries.Panel 3: Tech for Tomorrow: Navigating the Business LandscapeThe session will have Xiaomi India's president Muralikrishnan B and Raju Antony Pullan, Sr VP, Samsung, share insights on how the adoption of digital technologies, channels and tools is rapidly transforming businesses, industries, communities, governments and consumer lifestyles around the globe.TechTalk: Paving the Path to a Digitized IndiaAbhishek Singh, CEO, Digital India and CP Gurnani, MD and CEO, Tech Mahindra will talk about how in recent years, India has witnessed a remarkable transformation in its digital landscape. How it has paved the way for an inclusive growth path for citizens.