I just keep looking at my daughter and it feels amazing: Rahul Vaidya
Disha Parmar and Rahul Vaidya became parents to a baby girl on September 20, 2023. The couple shared this happy news on their social media. While Disha is still resting and recovering, we spoke to Rahul who is ecstatic.Talking to BT, he said, "I am on top of the world.. that's how I feel. It is an amazing feeling, which I can't explain. I have always wanted my first child to be a baby girl because I feel that they change the world for fathers.Read AlsoMy husband Yuvraj is extremely happy, he always wanted a baby girl: Mansi Sharma on becoming a mother againMansi Sharma and Yuvraj Hans have become parents to a baby girl. This is their second child.It is an inexplicable feeling. I am usually good with putting feelings into words, but this time I have no words."Rahul further added, "We had no clue that we were going to be delivering on September 20. A day before that, we had gone out for Ganpati darshan. When we came back at night, Disha had a lot of pain which went on for the entire night. Then the next morning at around 10 am went to the hospital and that's when the doctors checked and said that she would deliver today, so she needed to be hospitalised. We weren't prepared, but Disha was calm as she has been throughout her pregnancy. At around 5:27 pm, our baby girl was born."Rahul witnessed the delivery and the memories will forever be etched in his mind, he says. "I was sitting in the operation theatre while she was delivering, and to see the baby come into this world is such a beautiful memory for me. For around two-three hours when people were asking how I was feeling, I didn't know what to say. She was born at such an auspicious time... the timing couldn't have been better. Hamare ghar mein Laxmi ji aayi hain, so I put just a dash of tika on her forehead. This feeling of becoming a father is incredible," he shared.Disha is recovering well in the hospital and the couple will bring the baby home on Rahul's birthday. The singer said, "We never planned the pregnancy and we didn't know she would be born during Ganeshotsav, and that she would come home on September 23, my birthday. My baby is the best gift I could have ever wanted in life. Disha has held herself so well and it is commendable. After her delivery, she was unwell for a day but she is recovering now. When Disha held the baby, it felt surreal for her. Whenever I am in the hospital, I just keep looking at my daughter and feel so good."