I just keep looking at my daughter and it feels amazing: Rahul Vaidya
[Image]
Disha Parmar and Rahul Vaidya welcomed their baby girl on September 20, 2023. They shared this delightful news on their social media. Disha is currently resting and recuperating, while Rahul couldn't be more thrilled.
In a conversation with BT, Rahul expressed his overwhelming emotions, saying, "I am on top of the world... that's how I feel. It is an amazing feeling, which I can't explain. I have always wanted my first child to be a baby girl because I feel that they change the world for fathers."
[Image]
Mansi Sharma and Yuvraj Hans also recently became parents to a baby girl, marking this as their second child. 
Rahul went on to share, "It is an inexplicable feeling. I am usually good with putting feelings into words, but this time I have no words."
"We had no clue that we were going to be delivering on September 20. A day before that, we had gone out for Ganpati darshan. When we came back at night, Disha had a lot of pain which went on for the entire night. Then the next morning at around 10 am, we went to the hospital, and that's when the doctors checked and said that she would deliver today, so she needed to be hospitalized. We weren't prepared, but Disha was calm as she has been throughout her pregnancy. At around 5:27 pm, our baby girl was born."
[Image]
Rahul was present during the delivery, and he described the experience as a beautiful memory that will forever be etched in his mind. He shared, "I was sitting in the operation theater while she was delivering, and to see the baby come into this world is such a beautiful memory for me. For around two-three hours when people were asking how I was feeling, I didn't know what to say. She was born at such an auspicious time... the timing couldn't have been better. Hamare ghar mein Laxmi ji aayi hain, so I put just a dash of tika on her forehead. This feeling of becoming a father is incredible."
Disha is recovering well in the hospital, and the couple plans to bring the baby home on Rahul's birthday. The singer expressed, "We never planned the pregnancy, and we didn't know she would be born during Ganeshotsav, and that she would come home on September 23, my birthday. My baby is the best gift I could have ever wanted in life. Disha has held herself so well, and it is commendable. After her delivery, she was unwell for a day, but she is recovering now. When Disha held the baby, it felt surreal for her. Whenever I am in the hospital, I just keep looking at my daughter and feel so good."