'What stands out for Siraj is his...': AB de Villiers
New Delhi:
Ever since Mohammed Siraj claimed a six-wicket haul against Sri Lanka in the Asia Cup final, accolades for the Indian pacer continue to pour in with AB de Villiers also lavishing praise on the top-ranked ODI bowler.
Former South African captain de Villiers emphasised that Siraj's attitude makes him stand apart, and it is one thing that can really uplift you.
Indian fast bowler Mohammed Siraj has regained the top spot in the ICC ODI bowling rankings after a six-wicket performance in the Asia Cup final match against Sri Lanka.
"This tournament wouldn't have been possible without...": Mohammed Siraj after Asia Cup victory
Star Indian pacer Mohammed Siraj, who was named player-of-the-match for his sensational bowling in the Asia Cup final, on Sunday gave full credit to Lankan groundsmen for making this tournament a huge success.
"He's still young even though we've been seeing him for ages. We are very familiar with that face and that bowling action. What stands out for him is his attitude, we've spoken about this before on this series. Attitude can really uplift you. If you never give up, if you make your attitude catch up with your teammates, the fans want you. That's where you start doing special things in the park," de Villiers said on his official YouTube channel.
De Villiers said his former RCB teammate Siraj does not afraid of experimenting with the ball and he always tried to get the batters out.
"Siraj always keeps coming back, he's always in your face. The bowlers who are respected most are those who never give up. They are always in your face, that's what Siraj does. He's not afraid of trying the short ball, he's there in the batter's face, he's always trying to get you out. And Sri Lanka certainly felt that in the final."
Siraj bowled a devastating spell in which he took four wickets in the fourth over en route to a career-best 6/21 to help India bowl out Sri Lanka for a paltry 50 in the final. The right-arm pacer has regained his number one spot in the men's ICC ODI bowling rankings after his match-winning performance in the recently-concluded Asia Cup.