That seemed quite absur d
and undignified on her part and we tr eated it like the fables
of the Pr ophets she used to tell us.
Her silver locks wer e scatter ed untidily
over her pale, puckered face, and her lips constantly moved in
inaudible prayer .She was like the winter
landscape in the mountains, an expanse of pure white serenity
breathing peace and contentment.
While the children sat in
rows on either side of the verandah singing the alphabet or the
prayer in a chorus, my grandmother sat inside r eading the
scriptures.When I came back she would ask me what the teacher had
Rationalised 2023-24
THE PORTRAIT  OF A LADY 5
taught me.I would tell her English words and little things of
wester n science and learning, the law of gravity, Ar chimedes’
Principle, the world being round, etc.Even on the first day
of my arrival, her happiest moments wer e with her sparr ows
whom she fed longer and with frivolous rebukes .
For several hours she thumped the sagging
Rationalised 2023-24
6 HORNBILL
skins of the dilapidated drum and sang of the home-coming
of warriors.  Understanding the text
Mention
1.The thr ee phases of the author’s r elationship with his grandmother
befor e he left the country to study abroad.
Rationalised 2023-24
THE PORTRAIT  OF A LADY 7
3.Three ways in which the author’s grandmother spent her days
after he grew up.
What ar e the
different ways in which we come to know this?
2.Describe the changing r elationship between the author and his
grandmother .haggle shuf fle stride ride waddle
wriggle paddle swagger trudge slog
Noticing for m
Notice the for m of the verbs italicised in these sentences.
People said that she had
once been young and pr etty and had even had a husband, but that
was har d to believe.
The tasks cover the entire text and help in summarising the various
phases of the autobiographical account and ar e based on the facts
presented.
For example, when he went to the:
–village school
–city school
–university
Talking about the text
Peer interaction about the text is necessary before students engage in
writing tasks.Working with wor ds
Highlight dif ferent uses of common words like ‘tell’ and ‘take’; wor ds
used for dif ferent ways of walking; and semantically-related wor d
groups.Things to do
Relating the topic of the text to the r eader’s r eal-life experience; writing
about a person who one holds dear .
Rationalised 2023-24
THE PORTRAIT  OF A LADY 11


The car dboard shows me how it was
When the two girl cousins went paddling,
Each one holding one of my mother’s hands,
Rationalised 2023-24
12 HORNBILL
Think it out
1.What does the word ‘cardboard’ denote in the poem?What are they?
Notes
Poems are included to heighten students’ sensitivity to literarywriting and to appr eciate r hythm and sound patter ns in language.
The questions seek to examine factual and infer ential
compr ehension, establish empathy and draw attention to the
structur e of the poem and choice of wor ds.
She was like the winter
landscape in the mountains an expanse of pure white serenity
breathing peace and contentment
My grandmother and I were good friendsThe car dboard shows me how it was
When the two girl cousins went paddling
Each one holding one of my mothers hands
The sea holiday
Was her past mine is her laughter Both wry
With the labour ed ease of loss
The questions seek to examine factual and infer ential
compr ehension establish empathy and draw attention to the
structur e of the poem and choice of wor ds
Rationalised 202324
She was like the winter
landscape in the mountains an expanse of pure white serenity
breathing peace and contentment
My grandmother and I were good friendsThe car dboard shows me how it was
When the two girl cousins went paddling
Each one holding one of my mothers hands
The sea holiday
Was her past mine is her laughter Both wry
With the labour ed ease of loss
The questions seek to examine factual and infer ential
compr ehension establish empathy and draw attention to the
structur e of the poem and choice of wor ds
Rationalised 202324
